Hi Nina,
Yes the apartment still available, We don't have to waste our time, i have all the keys with me and there's nobody to show the inside of the apartment. You need to understand that the apartment can't be reserved for you without the proof that you have the cash for rent and deposit because you can email me next that you have found something else that suit you more than this and the price is low after i have reserved this apartment for you and i told you the reason why all this must be done, So your rent and deposit must be confirmed before i come back to hand over the keys to you the day you will arrived. I'm not after your money this just has to be done that's why i send you my passport page just to proof to you that your money is very safe and secured and i will never send you my bank details if i only needs your money
Before i send  the contract form, I need to know if you're ready to make transfer of 1210euro today after signing the contract form to proof that you really serious about the apartment and have the cash for the rent then the apartment will be reserved for you.
I will come back to hand over the keys to you in person the date you will arrived and when we meet in person, if the apartment is not the same as it's appears in the pictures i will refund your money back to you same day. Sorry this is the only way to move further.

Let me know.

Regards,

Martinez

Good Morning,

I have try to reconsider your offer and the least i can do for you now is if you're ready to make transfer just for 700euro today and you pay the balance when we meet in person.

Please let me know if you're ready to move further.

Regards

Yes the apartment still available and if you make the transfer today i will come back to Groningen the date you will arrived to hand over the keys to you.... Please let me know and i will send you the contract form now and bank details.

Hi Nina,
Attached to this email is the lease contract form try to print it out, fill in your information and sign it, scan the last page of the form to me to proof that you have pay for the rent and the flat has been reserved for you.
After that, make online immediate transfer of 1210euro into my bank account now and get back to me with the transfer page to proof that you have make the transfer and the apartment will be reserved for you. Please indicate from your bank as instant transfer in order to received the money next day in my account since it's international transfer.
Once i received the money, i will get back to you and we can now arranged how to meet in Groningen the day you will arrived to hand over the keys in person.

Here's my bank details to make the transfer:

Name : Martinez Herben
BANK: SANTANDER BANK
IBAN: GB56 ABBY09012898471509
BIC: ABBYGB2L

Please  use Nina as Reference when making the transfer OK?

Regards,
Martinez 

You can go ahead. There's no problem. 

Sorry my paasport doesn't issue with Ambassador in Beinjing. there's no Beijing on my passport.  If you i send you the contract form and bank details now... when do you plan to move into the apartment?



